“No one can slave for two masters;
“for either he will hate the one
and love the other,
“or he will stick to the one
and despise the other.
You cannot slave for God
and for Riches.”
Oh, excuse me,
I have to talk to other clients as well.
OK, thank you.
I thought I could do both,
but tonight I had to make a choice.
How is it going, everyone?
Are you guys doing OK?
Oh, yes, good.
When is Marty going to be here?
He was supposed to show me
some other offerings in this building.
Yes, Marty will be here
very soon, Sir.
Um, would you
care for another glass of wine?
Ah, no, I don’t have much time.
I can’t stay long.
I have another
important meeting tonight.
Everyone had tried to warn me.
They told me to remember,
to “remember the wife of Lot.”
You can do it.
OK.
Keep practicing, OK?
All right.
Oh, Tina, you already
started the rice.
Uh-huh, I’m almost done.
Good, good.
We are going to make your
grandma’s special vegetable patty today.
OK.
Do you want to help me?
Sure.
Hey, girls, I’m home!
Hey.
Hi, Dad.
Wow, you guys are busy.
Hey, Gloria,
you went out in service today.
How did it go?
Oh, yes, we had a really nice time.
I had some nice calls
over on the east side of town.
Oh, really?
Yeah.
Hey, you know, um, Joe?
The contractor I’ve been doing
accounts for all these years?
Uh-huh.
Well, I got a chance
to witness to him today,
and he agreed to start a study.
Wow, Dad, that’s awesome!
Oh, that’s great!
I hope it works out.
Yeah, I do too.
Ooh, what’s that?
Ooh, this looks good.
Hey.
You can wait a little bit.
I don’t know what you’re making,
but I’m sure it’s really good.
Well, if you let us finish making it.
Uh, OK, all right, all right, I give up.
I give up.
I’m going to work on the budget.
OK, so just call me when it’s ready,
all right?
OK.
Sure.
Oh, Tina, by the way,
is your talk ready?
The circuit overseer will be there,
so you want it to be perfect.
It will be.
But that’s not until
next week anyway.
How about your schoolwork?
Already done.
What’s that?
Hey, Dad?
There’s some strange man
walking into our building.
Strange man?
It’s OK, I’ll-I’ll—
Let me check.
It’s OK.
It’s Joe.
Joe? Why-
why is he coming here?
I didn’t tell you.
Yeah, he’s going to pick up
his books for the study.
All right?
All right.
Joe, thanks for coming over, man.
Yeah, come on in.
Hey.
Oh, if you don’t mind,
can you take off your shoes?
You can just put them
on the rack over here.
Serious?
Yeah.
This is where we put all our shoes.
All right.
Yeah.
OK.
Those are nice boots.
Yep, thanks.
I want you to meet my family.
This is, ah,
this is my wife, Gloria.
What’s up?
And our daughters,
Tina and Anna.
Hi.
Yep, hello.
OK.
Why don’t we come into my office?
Uh-huh.
All right, come on over.
OK.
All right, here’s a chair.
Let’s see, let me get that for you.
And you can take a seat.
And, oh, before you do,
can you grab the door?
Yeah.
Cozy, isn’t it?
How do you get anything
done in here, man?
I mean, it’s really convenient.
I mean, everything is at arm’s reach.
It works; it’s good.
OK.
So, what?
Are we going to study or what?
Um, we can, if you like,
but today I was just planning
on giving you the book
I was talking to you about,
and also I wanted to give you
your own copy of the Bible
so you can look up the scriptures.
So this is for you.
Coming from my background
as an accountant,
it’s organized so nicely.
It explains everything
in such logical order.
And it also helps us to see
how the Bible applies
to everyday topics.
Like what?
Being a diligent worker.
You’re going to see, the Bible,
it says that working with your hands,
that’s good work too,
just as long as you’re honest.
I’m telling you, man,
nobody is honest today, man,
not, not even my suppliers!
If I had it my way,
I’d take those guys
and I’d give them what they deserve.
OK.
All right.
Joe,
look, I understand
it’s not easy making a living.
No.
It’s not.
But you know, many people
deal with upsetting situations
by applying Scriptural principles.
The Bible shows us
how we can find true peace
and-and also how to get
our emotions under control.
I can’t help it, man!
I was born angry!
Joe, you’re going to learn
that the Bible tells us that
we have to make our minds over.
We have to
“put on the new personality.”
What do you mean “new personality”?
I can’t be somebody I’m not, man!
I understand.
I tell you what,
why don’t we talk about this some more,
you know, when I come over
to your place for the study, OK?
Yeah, all right.
Whatever.
All right.
So we’ll see you at your place,
Joe, OK?
All right.
Do you want to have
something to eat before you go?
No, I’m good.
Thanks.
Thanks again for coming by
and picking up the books.
OK.
OK, Joe.
All right.
Be safe, man.
Bye.
I’ll see you soon.
Ah, yeah!
Boys, your dad is home.
Start getting ready for dinner.
OK?
Hey, boys.
Hey.
Hey, Dad.
How is it going?
All right.
Hey, how’s it going?
Uh, good.
Good.
How was your day?
All right.
Hey, so, what are those books?
Oh, these?
Um.
Those are just some books
from my accountant, Brian.
Are they financial books?
Because that looks like a Bible.
Yeah, yeah.
Brian is a pretty religious guy.
Um, you know,
he’s got a nice family too.
Anyways, so,
what are we having for dinner?
What?
When did you meet his family?
Oh.
I just saw them around.
Yeah, he said
it might be good to come over,
uh, bring his wife,
maybe, to meet you.
And they’ve got two daughters
about Ricky and Arthur’s age.
Put the phone away.
Come on, let’s go.
Turn that game off.
Let’s eat.
I made your favorite dinner.
Ooh, tacos.
OK, let’s say a prayer.
Lord Jesus,—
Ruby, you have to convince Gloria.
She is your daughter.
She is making me look bad.
She is my niece,
so the way she lives reflects on me too.
She just needs to come work
for my company,
then she’ll be successful.
You should talk to her about that,
all right?
OK, bye.
OK.
Tuesday, four o’clock.
OK, see you then.
Would you like the crystal gel today?
Um, it’s OK.
It’s too expensive.
You need more money,
not super rich,
but just enough to have
what our relatives have,
or they’ll look down on you.
Mom, we have enough money.
Maybe enough for today,
but what if you get sick?
Mom, please listen to me.
OK, you’re done.
You can dry.
OK.
Hasn’t Brian lost
some of his clients lately?
Now you have to take
care of yourself.
You know your uncle can help you
find a good job
in his real estate company.
Mom, Jehovah will take care of us
as long as we trust in him.
You waste time on God,
doing that “pioneering thing,”
the time that you
could use to make money.
How will you have enough
when you’re old?
Mom, please listen to me.
What?
An old lady can’t give you some advice?
No, but we’ve already talked about this.
But you never listen.
I listen!
Mom, I listen,
but won’t you please listen to me once?
Your girls have to help.
You have no sons.
So they are your
most important investment.
You have to get them into good jobs,
like your brother’s kids.
We don’t expect our girls to provide us
with money or support or anything.
No.
You just don’t know
what it’s like to be poor.
I know.
I remember!
When I was young,
all I had to eat were turnips
that I dug out of the cold ground!
And I had to wear my sister’s shoes,
with holes in them!
Look at my shoes.
Do you see holes in them?
How do you think I got
shoes with no holes, huh?
This is a Bible-based magazine,
and Bible principles
can help us to cope
with any stress or anxiety
we may face in the future.
My husband just lost his job,
so this might help.
Oh, I’m so sorry to hear that.
Well, please be sure to read it
and also check out our website.
OK, thank you.
Have a good day.
Hey, that was good.
Yeah, that was OK.
Are you OK?
Well, Brian, I’m worried.
What happened to her
can happen to us too.
I mean, we need a stable income,
and I can get a job
at my uncle’s real estate firm.
Maybe this is an answer to our prayers.
I might have to quit pioneering
until I settle in to work and stuff,
but just for a while,
until we are financially more stable.
Gloria, we have enough.
Besides, Jehovah will take care of us.
He always has.
We just have to trust in him.
What about our girls?
They need a stable income to be pioneers.
They have—
And they need to know where
their next meal is coming from . . .
Gloria.
. . . and that they have
enough clothes to keep them warm!
Don’t you believe that Jehovah
will keep his promise to help us?
Of course!
But you never know
what could happen tomorrow!
We don’t expect Jehovah just to drop
everything we need into our laps, do we?
“Money is a protection,” right?
We just need to be realistic,
and balanced, balanced!
Gloria, Jesus said:
“Never be anxious about the next day.”
Oh, hello.
Can I just take one of these?
Yes, please do.
Please be sure to visit
our website for more information.
Oh, anyways, my Bible study Joe
texted me earlier today.
So he’s looking forward
to seeing us later at their place.
Oh!
I almost forgot.
What time are we supposed to be there?
Um, right after we are done here and we take
the cart back to the Kingdom Hall.
OK, I want to stop by home
and freshen up too.
OK.
So you guys meet a lot of different people
when you do this work?
Yes, as Jehovah’s Witnesses,
we like to meet people
from different backgrounds and cultures.
Yeah, we like to meet people
from other countries, don’t we, Mary?
Yeah, we do.
But we already have
our own religion and traditions.
They’re part of who we are.
Didn’t becoming a Witness
mean you had to give that all up?
Not at all.
We still enjoy our traditional food,
music, and clothes,
and so many other things.
Yeah, so we enjoy
the best parts of all cultures.
We just avoid the parts
that God disapproves of.
Like what?
Well, for example,
my mother still prepares food
to offer to our dead ancestors
on special days.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, I don’t think
I would ever do that.
Well,
it’s like with the first-century Christians,
there were certain common attitudes
and Jewish customs
that they had to leave behind.
So, what did your family say
when you changed your religion?
My mother was very upset.
She’s not so angry anymore,
although she doesn’t understand.
Oh, Gloria, Brian,
these are our boys,
Arthur and Ricky.
Oh, hi.
This is Arthur
and Ricky.
Hi.
They’re amazing boys.
How’s it going?
Yeah,
my boys.
How are you all doing?
Good.
Yeah.
Good to meet you both.
So how old are you?
I’m 16.
No, you’re not.
Almost 16.
I’m 18.
Oh, which high school do you attend?
The one right down the street.
Oh, that’s our girls’ school too!
Um, do you know Anna and Tina?
Oh, yeah, I’ve—
I’ve definitely seen them around.
They’re both so, uh, really brainy.
OK.
Let’s see.
Your girls are very lovely.
I’m sure they’re very good girls.
Oh, thank you!
You know, actually, they both want
to be full-time Bible teachers.
Wow.
Oh, uh, by the way, you know,
we wanted to invite you,
all of you, uh,
to the hall this Sunday.
We have a special speaker.
He’s very special, yes.
He’s dear to us,
and we’ve known him for years.
Nice.
Uh, I don’t know.
We’ll see.
Maybe.
Just to check it out.
But we’ll have to talk about that.
Yeah.
OK.
All right.
Gloria,
why did you give me that look
when I said that the girls
wanted to be in full-time service?
Well,
I was reminded recently
that the safest road
is to get a good job
with a good company.
Oh.
Has your mom been talking
to you about this again?
She’s my mom.
I have to listen to her.
I owe it to her.
You know, my father died
when my brother and I were young.
And then after that,
my mom had to raise us on nearly nothing.
You know it very well.
Yes, I know.
She was very brave.
OK, but she didn’t know Jehovah.
We do.
Shouldn’t we be encouraging
our girls to serve him full-time?
Why can’t they do both?
Everyone has to work, right?
OK, but what comes first
—work or Jehovah?
But you see,
there are so many Witnesses
that have prestigious,
high-paying jobs.
Yeah, but should we
be pushing Anna and Tina
to succeed in this system?
No, I’m not.
I just want them
to have a normal life,
and who knows how long
this system will last.
Oh.
And what is wrong with living
comfortably in the meantime?
OK, this is not a “last days” question.
OK, it’s always been wrong
to strive to be rich.
No, not rich, just plenty
—just enough to give them
peace of mind so that they
can sleep soundly.
That’s exactly the opposite
of what the Bible says:
“Sweet is the sleep
of the one serving, . . .
“but the plenty belonging to the rich . . .
does not permit him to sleep.”
But don’t you think they need
a fallback career
—just in case?
Just in case what?
In case Jesus was wrong?
So guess what?
What?
Mom is all freaked out
because Ricky recognized my picture.
Yeah, that figures.
He’s cute, but Mom
would never approve anyway.
Of course not!
She’d say,
“You’re too young,
and he’s not in the truth!”
Yeah, not just that.
Their family isn’t as well-off as we are.
And don’t forget the “Ooh!” factor.
Right!
If Grandma heard of it,
she’d go, “Ooh.”
Exactly.
Hey, girls,
you know what I’ve always told you.
You need to marry someone
with the same standards as ours.
You have to consider their
family background and parents’ careers.
Mom, doesn’t the Bible say
‘marry only in the Lord,’
not ‘only in your social class’?
Yeah.
Never mind!
Have you guys finished
your homework yet?
Anna, your finals are coming up.
I don’t want you missing
any more meetings than necessary.
OK?
Gloria,
why should they miss any meetings?
You know,
putting school before Jehovah,
that’s just practice
for putting work before Jehovah.
Sometimes they have to.
Those.
Oh, I like these.
Me too.
What are those?
You’re not going out
in your sister’s shoes.
Why not?
Because I said so!
But these are perfect,
and she doesn’t wear them anymore.
Never, never!
Your grandma had to wear
her sister’s shoes,
and they had holes in them!
Mom, calm down.
I don’t wear them anymore.
She was so ashamed.
I made up my mind
to make a lot of money
so no one would ever
see me borrow clothes!
And you’re not going
to borrow them either!
Hey, so are you going to go or what?
All right, I’ll go.
Now will you leave me alone?
Well, you don’t have to go
if you don’t want to.
Well, if you don’t want me
to go then I won’t.
I do.
OK, I said I do.
I want you to go.
So I said I’d go.
I’d go, just to see.
OK.
OK, good.
Good.
Thank you.
But this may be the only time.
Maybe.
Yeah, I’m going to tell you
exactly what’s going to happen.
It’s the same thing that happens
when I go to church.
The people don’t even
know that I’m there.
So why go?
What?
Nothing.
You’ll see, you’ll see.
Hey, Brian.
Hey, Dion.
Good to see you.
Good to see you too.
Hey, guys.
Meet Mary.
Pleasure to meet you.
I’m Mike.
Hey, Jule.
How are you?
Good.
We’d like to welcome back
Brother Lee Williams
to deliver his final talk entitled
“No One Can Slave for Two Masters.”
Brother Williams, please.
There are billions of people
who are enslaved
without even realizing it.
They unintentionally
do it to themselves
because they feel obligated
to follow the traditions of their culture,
and they put family
and money ahead of God.
But Jesus made it clear that,
sooner or later,
everyone on earth
will have to choose
who or what
they will serve as master
—either Jehovah
or money and the power
and prestige that goes with having it.
Notice how Jesus explained this
at Matthew 6:24.
I invite you to open
your Bibles there,
Matthew 6:24.
And Jesus said:
“No one can slave for two masters;
“for either he will hate the one
and love the other,
“or he will stick to the one
and despise the other.
You cannot slave
for God and for Riches.”
Now, how could someone
be divided in loyalty like this?
Well, let’s think of a Bible example:
Lot and his family.
Now, Lot moved his family near Sodom
and then later into the city,
although knowing that the men there
were “wicked, gross
sinners against Jehovah.”
Was he seeking material security?
Did he give in to pressure
from his wife?
Did they try to serve two masters?
Well, whatever the case,
we know the results.
The family suffered spiritually,
and they put their lives at risk.
Eventually, this attitude
affected Lot’s wife so much
that she loved the comforts
of Sodom more than Jehovah.
Even while Jehovah used the angels
to try to get them out
of that wicked city,
Lot’s wife looked back,
possibly because of her attachment
to her things,
and she became
a pillar of salt.
Now, could Lot’s wife
have avoided that tragic outcome?
Of course!
It didn’t have to end that way.
No wonder Jesus made
the very direct comments
at Luke 17:32 when he said:
“Remember the wife of Lot.”
And there is the lesson for us:
We are living at a time
when it is vital
that we do not look back
in a figurative sense.
What a sobering reminder
that we should put Jehovah God first
and seek his approval before family,
money, and things.
Tell your folks I said hello, OK?
OK.
All right, thank you, bye-bye.
Brother Williams,
that was very inspiring.
Oh, thank you, Brian.
I’m glad you thought so.
I want you to meet Joe and Mary.
This is their first meeting.
Oh, nice to meet you,
Joe and Mary.
Yeah.
Hi, Gloria.
Hi, Brother Williams.
I’ve got to tell you,
all of this is so different from my church.
I mean, I liked your sermon,
but believe me, we’re not a family
that expects to ever get rich.
We never have any money
for anything anyways.
Right.
Just a lot of debt.
Yeah,
but you know the important thing
is that we can have
our spiritual needs taken care of.
God can take care of all
the other needs.
Well, I’m glad you were
able to make it today.
Hopefully,
this won’t be your last time.
Maybe.
Thanks again,
Brother Williams.
OK.
Take care.
Bye, Gloria.
Bye.
Hey,
so thanks for coming over, man.
I really appreciate the effort
you made to come today.
Yeah, I mean, it was good.
I enjoyed it.
The speeches he gave were good.
Yeah?
Yeah, it was pretty nice.
Good.
So we’ll see.
What did Mary think?
Well, I don’t know.
I have to check with her.
Um, I mean,
this is a lot different than her church.
Yeah.
So later on I’ll-
I’ll get her take on it too.
Yeah.
Brian!
Thanks again,
Brother Williams.
It was good to see you again.
I appreciate it.
And Joe,
it was nice meeting you.
Yeah.
All right.
Bye.
Hey, Brian,
where is Mr. Williams’ wife?
He’s a widower.
Julia died a few years ago.
Oh.
But he took good care of her,
right to the end.
Man, that’s sad.
Yeah.
Especially when it’s your wife.
Wow.
But you know what?
He’s convinced, and we’re all convinced,
we’ll see her again in the new world.
And you know, despite his grief,
he continues his work.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah.
So how much does he make then?
Oh, well,
he doesn’t make anything.
He’s-
he’s a volunteer.
A volunteer?
Yeah.
Well, how does he afford that nice car,
his phone, and his suit?
Well, the congregations
cover his basic expenses.
What?
The congregation?
Man, it sounds to me
like he’s living off others
instead of working,
like you say.
Oh, no, no, Joe!
You’ve got it all wrong.
He’s busy just like the rest of us.
He’s-
he’s busy preaching;
he’s preparing, teaching,
listening to us.
It’s not like that.
Yeah, but,
you suppose he ever asks himself,
‘Can I make it in this “real world”?’
like you and I do every day.
Joe, trust me, he knows
what this world is really like.
I mean, he’s in it every day,
helping people.
Besides,
before he learned the truth,
he had a prestigious career.
He just doesn’t talk about it.
Man, I got to go.
Uh, hey, Mary!
OK.
We try to follow Bible principles
as much as we can.
Mary!
Yeah?
Are you ready to go?
I’m ready.
Well, I have to go.
OK.
I’ll see you next time, OK?
Hey, girls?
Yeah, we have to get back,
OK.
Thanks again, man.
And I’ll see you next week?
All right.
Bye, Mary.
Bye.
Bye, girls.
Bye, Joe.
Bye.
You know, I really enjoyed
Brother Williams’ talk today.
The part where he said:
‘You cannot slave for two masters.
We cannot serve God and Riches.’
I really liked that.
Yeah, Brother Williams
always gives nice talks.
But aren’t there many brothers
who are successful
in the world
and in the truth too?
How can he say
you cannot do both?
But, Gloria,
it wasn’t Brother Williams who said
no one can slave for two masters;
it was Jesus.
I know.
But I see Witnesses
who are very active in the truth
and also hold down high-paying jobs,
some even pioneer.
That’s why you
have to exert yourselves.
Gloria, Jesus said ‘to exert yourself
to get in through the narrow door,’
not to serve two masters.
Evidently,
Lot’s wife tried to serve both.
But we live in different times though.
Don’t you think our girls
need to try as hard as they can?
But think of those
in our own congregation
who pushed their kids too far.
They couldn’t do it all.
They had to “take a break”
from the truth
so they could pursue
their material goals.
So far,
they haven’t returned to Jehovah.
Can you guys walk any faster?
I don’t want to miss my TV show.
So, Mom,
how was your baptism?
What baptism?
Didn’t you get baptized
this morning?
How was it?
Yeah, was it as good as Dad said?
Yeah, I enjoyed it.
Everyone was so pleasant.
It’s not what I thought it would be.
Are you serious?
Yes, I’m serious.
We listened to a sermon
and looked up a lot of scriptures.
I couldn’t even keep up!
I didn’t know the Bible
had so many books!
But you know, now I can see
why your dad is so interested.
So, what does that mean?
Yeah, like, what happens now?
Are you like ready to get baptized?
Shall I baptize thou now?
What’s wrong with you?
Stop that!
You know, both of you just get up
and help me clean this table.
Let’s go.
I told them that I would sit in
the next time they came
to study with your dad.
I got to keep my word.
No, you don’t!
You don’t owe
those people anything!
Yeah, they’ll understand anyways.
Listen,
that would be rude.
I’m many things,
but I’ve never been rude.
Besides, I’m curious.
Who knows what I could learn
from all of this?
Yay!
Congratulations, guys!
I know this place will be
the home of your dreams.
Those men are so funny!
Mom, they’re a gay couple.
So?
A year ago that shocked you.
Things change,
and we need to get used to it.
I just closed on a huge
housing contract for my client.
You see?
That’s the only way to survive.
Your girls need
to get big-money jobs.
You have no choice.
Otherwise,
your sister-in-law and her family
will look down on them and on you.
Mom, why are you trying
to even impress them?
You don’t even like those people.
Never mind.
Mom?
I’m starting school tomorrow.
School?
You?
What school?
I’m going to take real estate classes
so that I can earn my own money.
I want to move to a better apartment.
Mom, can you please
speak to Uncle for me
about working
for his real estate company?
Now you talk like a good daughter.
Next time
on Remember the Wife of Lot.
What’s going on?
Why are you being so serious?
I’m just trying to tell you
that I love you all,
and I want what’s best for us.
Gloria’s mother keeps badgering
her and me to move up.
I’m just trying to make her happy.
If I make this sale today,
I’ll have enough
to make the down payment
on the bigger apartment
that I told you about,
the one on the East Side.